---
title: My Mac Setup 2018
excerpt: "With such appearances as: Bear, VS Code, Brew, and many more!"
date: 2018-03-27
published: true
keywords:
  [
    homebrew,
    bear,
    spectacle,
    stay,
    flux,
    tomighty,
    pomodoro,
    window management,
    notetaking,
    markdown,
    package manager,
    macos,
    OSX,
    mac,
    Airmail,
    grammarly,
    alfred,
    spotlight,
    grammar,
    development,
    process,
    productivity,
  ]
---

We all have a process and a preference for how we do things. As with anything
related to software development, opinions abound on all sides. I’m not saying
that the applications I use in my day to day are what everyone should use.
They’ve become daily uses for me, and I hope some of them might prove useful to
you as well.

[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/ "Homebrew Homepage") If you didn’t know before, you
can use brew to manage a lot more than only CLI tools. Brew Cask will install a
wide range of products that are available online. If an app is only available on
the App Store you'll want to use
[Mac App Store CLI](https://github.com/mas-cli/mas "mas github repo"). Mas is
like brew, but for the App Store. You have to have downloaded the app once from
the store, so it won’t work for the initial install. I find using brew to be
faster than going to a site, downloading a tar, unpacking, and everything. Brew
handles that for you, and the most important part, deletes it when you no longer
want it on your machine.

[Bear](http://www.bear-writer.com/ "Bear Homepage") I recently switched to Bear
after having used Evernote for four years. For one, Bear is **fast** and looks
fantastic, as one would expect since it is from a design company. It’s also
inexpensive for a premium subscription (\$14.99 per year), even though it has a
full freemium model. The main thing free tier is missing is the ability to sync
notes across devices and unlock more themes.

My [blog](https://www.codelyon.com/ "codelyon.com") uses Gatsby, a static site
generator that can use Markdown to generate posts. Which Bear is compatible with
rendering, unlike Evernote. Having the ability to keep post ideas, lists, notes,
and articles all in one location is quite handy.

[Spectacle](https://www.spectacleapp.com/ "Spectacle Homepage") One of the most
annoying parts of MacOS, to me at least, is window management, more like the
lack thereof. Coming from Windows I'm used to the fancy drag to the side of the
screen and the OS resizes the window to fit for me. I missed that when switching
to Mac, and while Spectacle isn’t _quite_ the same, it’s pretty damn close.

Spectacle works via keyboard shortcuts, which is nice if you spend a **lot** of
time using one. Open source, and completely free. You can resize to fill the
full screen, center a window, halves, thirds, quarters.

[Stay](https://cordlessdog.com/stay/ "Stay Homepage") An annoying thing about
MacOS is the tendency for windows to disappear or be offscreen when using
external displays. Unplugging from many screens to work on a single display is
generally fine. Plugging back into external displays often results in the
application windows rearranging. First world problems, I know, but sometimes you
want things to be how they were the last time you were using it. Stay “stores”
your application windows for you, and will restore them. This way if you run
into any of this window hiding BS, you can restore them without having to kill
the application.

[f.lux](https://justgetflux.com/ "Flux Homepage") I’m likely not the only one,
but I tend to turn the brightness **way** down on my screens, MacBook and
secondary screens. I’ve had problems in the past with headaches due to a
combination of bright screens and outdated glasses. Flux helps with eye strain
and filtering of blue light that can keep our brains from becoming tired. This
doesn’t work so well if you need to have color accuracy, but for the majority of
my time, I have a slight yellow tinge to my display.

[Tomighty](http://tomighty.org/ "Tomighty Page") Oh, the mighty Pomodoro. I’ve
gotten more done since adopting this technique than I could have hoped for.
Granted some days it’s easier than others to focus on tasks. I find that
breaking things up into 25 min blocks is great, and Tomighty helps out. With
keyboard shortcuts and tracking how many I’ve completed. This is one of the
first apps I install when setting up a new machine.

[Airmail](http://airmailapp.com/ "Airmail Homepage") I find the default Mail app
to be slow. A former co-worker showed me Airmail, and in the beginning, I didn’t
want to try it due to it not being free. Being a broke college student at the
time, I couldn't justify it. Yet, I don’t think I’ll ever go back. The ability
to handle a significant amount of inboxes, smart folders, and automation rules
to handle different types of mail, this client has everything I need in a sleek,
fast package.

[Grammarly](https://app.grammarly.com/ "Grammarly Homepage") I use the free
version but have considered getting a subscription. I write enough and forget
how to spell enough to justify it. The better part of this app is the grammar
enhancement.

[Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/ "Alfred Homepage") When I first discovered
Spotlight I couldn’t believe it. I can open applications without having to open
the finder, or the dock, or an icon on the desktop. I started reading and
hearing about Alfred in articles and podcasts, so I knew I had to give it a
shot. The free version is very powerful, the ability to open applications and
files, search Google (or your browser of choice) with customizable hotkeys and
extensibility is pretty awesome. I stuck with the free version for a year before
finally buying a license, workflows are what convinced me after reading about
the [devdocs](http://devdocs.io/ "devdocs Homepage") integration. Now I have the
ability to search the devdocs documentation from Alfred. I've barely scratched
the surface of what this tool can do, and could likely write an entire post on
it alone.
